# 110. Balanced Binary Tree

Link to the problem: https://leetcode.com/problems/balanced-binary-tree/description/  
Difficulty: #Easy 
Topic: #BinaryTree #DFS
Hint: Create inner method for traversing a given root and return if its balanced alongside the depth. Tree is balanced if difference between all subtree depths is at most 1.

###### Short Description:
Given a binary tree, determine if its height-balanced
### Explanation:
For a tree to be balanced, all of its subtrees need to be balanced as well. For an optimal solution, therefore, it is needed to traverse as deep as possible, then come back up. A tree is balanced if the depth difference between its left and right branches is at most 1. If the root is empty, then its balanced and has a height of 0. If the height is not 0, then traverse left and right branches by recursively calling the inner method. After the recursive calls, check if the tree is balanced by verifying both left and right branches are balanced and the absolute value of the difference between their branches is less than or equal to 1. Because of cases where depth of left is 0 but right is 2. Without absolute difference, this would result in -2 which is less than 1 but the tree is unbalanced. At the end, the inner method should return balanced and the depth. Depth is calculated by 1 + maximum of left and right depths. Adding 1 is needed since, the first node is already height 1.
##### Steps:

1. Since the given method returns only boolean but we need depth of the tree as well, we create an inner method `dfs` that takes a root and returns `[balanced, depth]`
2. Inside the inner method, first to determine if we have reached the end of a given root, we need a base case that checks if the given root is empty or not. Empty root is balanced and has a height of 0.
3. If the root is not empty, then left and right subtrees are traversed by recursively calling the `dfs`.
4. Root is considered to be balanced if left tree is balanced, right tree is balanced, and the absolute depth difference between children is at most 1. 
5. At the end, the method should return balanced and maximum depth of left and right trees + 1.
6. The outer method should call the recursive inner `dfs` method by passing initial root and returning first index of the invocation result

### Code:

```python
# Definition for a binary tree node.
# class TreeNode:
#     def __init__(self, val=0, left=None, right=None):
#         self.val = val
#         self.left = left
#         self.right = right
class Solution:
    def isBalanced(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> bool:
        def dfs(root):
            # explores the given root
            # returns if tree is balanced or not alongside its height

            if not root:
                # if the root is empty, its balanced and the height is 0
                return [True, 0]

            # traverse left and right subtrees
            left, right = dfs(root.left), dfs(root.right)

            # root is balanced, if its child nodes are balanced 
            # and the difference between their depth is less than or equal to 1
            # abs is needed for trees where left side is 0 but right side is 2
            balanced = (left[0] and right[0] and abs(left[1] - right[1]) <= 1)
            
            # return if tree is balanced and its depth
            return [balanced, 1 + max(left[1], right[1])]
        
        return dfs(root)[0]
```
