# [121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/

Difficulty:  #Easy 
Topic: #TwoPointers 
Hint: One pointer tracks lowest buy day, another highest sell day

###### Short description:
Given an array of numbers representing stock prices, find which two days would be best for buying and selling.

### Explanation:

Create two pointers, one for tracking buy day, the other for sell day (indexes of array). Also, initialize an integer for keeping track of the global maximum. Then, while sell day hasn't reached the end of array, iterate the array. If current buy is less than current sell number, then calculate the profit for current transaction, then compare it to the globally maximum profit. However, if current buy is not less than current sell, then it means sell - buy < 0, which means current sell price is actually lower than the current buy price, therefore, equate buy index to the current sell index. Always increment sell by 1 to continue looping. After loop, return global maximum.

##### Steps:

1. Create two pointers `buy` and `sell` at indexes `0` and `1` respectively.
2. Create global maximum variable.
3. While sell index hasn't reached the end of the array:
	1. if `prices[buy] < prices[sell]`, then calculate current profit, and compare it with global max.
	2. else, `buy = sell`, since the number at sell index is lower than the number at buy index.
4. Increment `sell` to advance the loop


### Code:

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        # creating two pointers - left and right
        buy =  0
        sell = 1

        maxProfit = 0

        while sell < len(prices):
            # check if profitable
            if prices[buy] < prices[sell]:
                profit = prices[sell] - prices[buy]
                maxProfit = max(maxProfit, profit)
            else:
                # re-assign buy pointer if it wasn't profitable
                # sell - buy < 0 -> current sell pointer is lower than current buy
                buy = sell
            
            # this is always incremented to search for a bigger profit margin
            sell += 1

        return maxProfit
```
