# [125. Valid Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome/)

Difficulty:  #Easy 
Topic: #TwoPointers 
Hint: One pointer starts from beginning, the other from end. If there's a mismatch, the string is not a palindrome

###### Short description:
Given a string, determine if its a palindrome

### Explanation:

Create two pointers. One starts from the beginning of the word, the other from the end. Loop while the pointers haven't met or passed each other. If the character at first pointer is not alpha-numeric, then advance the pointer without comparison. Do the same check for the second pointer. Otherwise, lower the current letter at both pointers and compare with each other. If they do not match, then the given string is not a palindrome. At the end, increment the first pointer, and decrement the other one. If the loop has terminated, it means that the string is palindrome.

##### Steps:

1. Create left and right pointers, `l = 0, r = len(s) - 1`.
2. While `l` hasn't passed `r`:
	1. Check if the character at index `l` is alpha-numeric, if not `l += 1` and `continue` to skip the current iteration.
	2. Check if the character at index `r` is alpha-numeric, if not `r -= 1` and `continue` to skip the current iteration.
	3. Compare, character pointed by both pointers (`lower()`), if not `return False`
	4. Advance both pointers by 1, `l += 1, r -= 1` at the end of the loop.
3. Once the loop terminates, `return True`.


### Code:

```python
class Solution:
    def isPalindrome(self, s: str) -> bool:
        l = 0
        r = len(s) - 1
        
        while l < r:
            if not is_letter(s[l]):
                l+= 1
                continue
            
            if not is_letter(s[r]):
                r-= 1
                continue

            if s[l].lower() != s[r].lower():
                return False
            l += 1
            r -= 1

        return True

    def is_letter(c: str) -> bool:
        return (ord('A') <= ord(c) <= ord('Z') or
                ord('a') <= ord(c) <= ord('z') or
                ord('0') <= ord(c) <= ord('9'))
            
        
```
