# [20. Valid Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parentheses/)

Difficulty:  #Easy 
Topic: #Stack 
Hint: Opened brackets can come in any order but entered closing brace must match the lastly entered opening bracket.

###### Short description:
Given a string `s` containing just the characters `'('`, `')'`, `'{'`, `'}'`, `'['` and `']'`, determine if the input string is valid.

### Explanation:

The opening brackets can be entered in any order such as `([(([{`, however, the closing bracket must match the lastly entered opening bracket (in this case `{`). Therefore, create a map storing opening brackets as key, and closing as value. Initialize an empty stack that will be used to store opening brackets. Iterate over the given string, if bracket is a key in the initialized hashmap, then its an opening bracket, hence, store it in the stack. Otherwise, it must be a closing bracket. Pop the last element from the stack and look up the value associated with the popped bracket, if its not the same as the currently entered closing bracket, return false. One case to consider is that, openings might be empty (when for example entered string is `))`). Therefore, before popping check if the openings is not empty. After the loop terminated, if there are still elements left in the opening stack, then it means closing brackets were never entered, therefore return false, otherwise return true.

##### Steps:

1. Create a map to store opening brackets as key and associated closing as value
2. Create an empty stack
3. Iterate over the string one bracket at a time
4. If the current bracket is a key in the map, push it to the stack
5. Otherwise, return false if the stack is empty or value associated if the popped element from the stack is not the same as the current bracket
6. Out of the loop, return false if the stack still has some brackets in it, true otherwise.


### Code:

```python
class Solution:
    def isValid(self, s: str) -> bool:
        pairs = {
            '(': ')',
            '{': '}',
            '[': ']'
        }

        brackets = []

        for c in s:
            if c in pairs.keys():
                brackets.append(c)
            elif not brackets or pairs[brackets.pop()] != c:
                return False                
        
        return not brackets
```
