# [207. Course Schedule](https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule/)

Difficulty: #Medium 
Topic: #DFS #Graph

### Explanation:
From the given array construct a graph based on hashmap where courses are the keys and prerequisites are the values. Then define a set to store courses that are currently getting visited. Then starting from the first course (course `0`) dfs the courses. The first base case is if the course is being visited already, then it means this is the second time the course is accessed during the traversal process, meaning there's a cycle and course cannot be completed. The second base case is if the course has no prerequisites, then it can definitely be completed. If neither base case is satisfied, then add course to the visiting set and start recursively traversing its prerequisites, if any of the prerequisites cannot be completed, then the course cannot be completed. Once prerequisites are traversed, remove the course from visiting set and set its prerequisites to an empty list. Exit with true if all dfs calls succeeeded.
##### Steps:
1. `course_preqs = { i:[] for i in range(numCourses) }` hashmap with initial value of empty list for each course
2. Populate the prerequisites for each course
3. `visiting = set()` to keep track of the currently visiting courses
4. `for course in range(numCourses): if not dfs(course): return False` for each course, call `dfs` function, if any of the calls fail, then exit early by returning false.
5. `return True` once all `dfs` calls are completed
6. `def dfs(course):` define a dfs function
	1. `if course in visiting: return False` as the first base case
	2. `if course_preqs[course] == []: return True` as the second base case
	3. `visiting.add(course)` mark course as being visited
	4. `for preq in course_preqs[course]:` traverse through course prerequisites
		1. `if not dfs(preq): return False` if any of the prerequisites cannot be completed, then the course cannot be completed
	5. `visiting.remove(course)` once prerequisites are traversed, remove the course from the visiting set
	6. `course_preqs[course] = []` since all prerequisites of the course can be visited, remove all of its prerequisites
	7. `return True`

### Code:

```python
class Solution:
    def canFinish(self, numCourses: int, prerequisites: List[List[int]]) -> bool:
        # hm to store course and its prerequisites as a value
        course_preqs = { i:[] for i in range(numCourses) }

        for course, preq in prerequisites:
            course_preqs[course].append(preq)    
            
        # keep track of currently visiting courses 
        visiting = set()

        def dfs(course):
            # if course is already in visiting list, cycle exists
            if course in visiting:
                return False
            
            # if course has no preqs, it can be completed
            if course_preqs[course] == []:
                return True
            
            # mark course as currently visiting
            visiting.add(course)

            # traverse the prerequisities
            for preq in course_preqs[course]:
                # if any of the prerequisites cannot be completed, course cant be completed
                if not dfs(preq):
                    return False
            visiting.remove(course)
            course_preqs[course] = []
            return True
        
        # since graph can be not fully connected, we need to traverse all nodes individually
        for course in range(numCourses):
            if not dfs(course):
                return False
        return True
```
