# [21. Merge Two Sorted Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/)

Difficulty:  #Easy 
Topic: #LinkedList
Hint: Create an empty list, then while there's element in both lists take the larger node and advance the list from which the node was taken.

###### Short description:
Given two sorted linked lists, merge them into a single, sorted linked list

### Explanation:

First, we need to create a new empty Linked List which will be the sorted list. Then we create a tail which will track the tail node of this linked list. Then, while neither of the given lists is null, compare current element from first list to the second one. If the number is smaller, append it to the tail's end and advance the list from which the element was taken by equating it to list's next pointer. The other list's tail should remain unchanged. Regardless of which from where the last element was added, the tail pointer needs to be updated to point to the most recently added node, therefore, it needs to be advanced by equating current tail to tail.next as well. Once the loop terminates, if one of the lists is still empty, the rest of that list needs to be appended to the tail's next pointer.

##### Steps:

1. Create an empty dummy list.
2. Create a tail pointer equal to the dummy.
3. Iterate while neither `list1` nor `list2` is empty.
4. If `list1.val < list2.val`, then `tail.next = list1.val` and `list1 = list1.next`.
5. Else, do the same but with the `list2`.
6. Tail always needs to be advanced to point to the most recent element: `tail = tail.next`.
7. After the loop, if `list1` is not empty, then `tail.next = list1`, otherwise `tail.next = list2`
8. Finally, return `dummy.next`


### Code:

```python
# Definition for singly-linked list.
# class ListNode:
#     def __init__(self, val=0, next=None):
#         self.val = val
#         self.next = next
class Solution:
    def mergeTwoLists(self, list1: Optional[ListNode], list2: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
        # empty node in case lists are empty
        dummy = ListNode()
        tail = dummy

        # while neither list is empty
        while list1 and list2:
            if list1.val < list2.val:
                tail.next = list1
                list1 = list1.next
            else:
                tail.next = list2
                list2 = list2.next
            tail = tail.next

        # if one list is still non-empty, append all elements
        if list1:
            tail.next = list1
        elif list2:
            tail.next = list2

        return dummy.next
```
