# [33. Search in Rotated Sorted Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-in-rotated-sorted-array/)

Difficulty: #Medium 
Topic: #BinarySearch 
Hint: If the array is rotated, then you have 2 separately sorted arrays. Determine in which side 

### Explanation:
In this problem the array could be in of two structures - either its not rotated, so you have a sorted array, or it is rotated and you have two separately sorted arrays. First, calculate the midpoint of left and right pointers. If the midpoint is greater than or equal to the left pointer, it means the array is sorted until the midpoint. If the number is to the left of the midpoint, then it must be greater than left but less than mid, so shift the right pointer. However, if the number is greater than the mid, then it must be to the left of the mid. It could also be that the mid is less than the left pointer, in that case it means the mid is in the right side of the rotated array. If the target number is greater than the mid but less than right, it means the number is after the current mid, therefore shift the left pointer. However, if the condition doesn't satisfy, then it means the target is not between the current mid and current right, so it must be to the left of the mid point, therefore shift the right pointer.
##### Steps:
1. Start usual binary search
2. `if nums[left] <= nums[mid]:` if this condition is satisfied, then it means the search is on the left side of the array and the numbers until the midpoint are sorted.
	1. `if nums[left] <= target < nums[mid]:` if the target number is between current left and mid, then there's no point in looking the indexes after the current mid, therefore `right = mid - 1`
	2. However, if that condition is not satisfied, then it means the number is not between left and mid, so it must be to the right of the current mid, therefore `left = mid + 1`
3. If `nums[mid] < nums[left]`, then it means we are on the right side of the rotated array.
	1. `if nums[mid] < target <= nums[right]:` check if the target is between current mid and right, if yes, move the left pointer
	2. Otherwise, move the right pointer

### Code:

```python
class Solution:
    def search(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
        left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1

        while left <= right:
            # calc midpoint
            mid = (left + right) // 2

            if nums[mid] == target:
                return mid

            # determine which side is sorted
            if nums[left] <= nums[mid]:
                if nums[left] <= target < nums[mid]:
                    # target between left and mid pointer, usual binary search
                    right = mid - 1
                else:
                    # target not between left and mid pointer despite left portion being sorted
                    # target must be to the right of the mid
                    left = mid + 1
            # right sorted portion
            else:
                if nums[mid] < target <= nums[right]:
                    # target between mid and right, usual binary search
                    left = mid + 1
                else:
                    # target not between mid and right despite right side being sorted
                    # target must be to the left of the mid
                    right = mid - 1
        
        return -1   
```
