# [54. Spiral Matrix](https://leetcode.com/problems/spiral-matrix/)

Difficulty: #Medium 
Topic: #Arrays #Matrix 
Hint: Use 4 pointers to denote boundaries, and reduce pointers after going through the column or a row.

### Explanation:
The problem can be solved by using 4 pointers to denote the 4 boundaries - left, right, top, bottom. The idea is that once a certain level is added to the result, that level's pointer can be advanced, so that the next time, the next level is added to the result. Each of the 4 pointers should point to the each end of the array initially. Since the array is traversed from `matrix[0][0]`, top and left pointers should point to these coordinates, while bottom and right should point to the maximum length. Loop while the pointers haven't met each other (left with right and top with bottom). Then, first go through the top level using a for loop, then bring the top pointer
downwards by advancing it by `1`. Then, go through the cells of the right column, and then bring it leftwards. After this iteration, it could be that the pointers are now overlapping (for example, if the matrix is just one row or column). Therefore verify the pointers, and if necessary then break. Otherwise, go through the bottom row elements by looping from the right pointer to the left pointer. Then, advance the bottom pointer and bring it upwards. Finally do the same with the left pointer. Once the loop terminates, return the result
##### Steps:
1. `left, right, top, bottom = 0, len(matrix[0]), 0, len(matrix)` pointers
2. `while left < right and top < bottom:` loop while the pointers haven't met
3. `for i in range(left, right): res.append(matrix[top][i])` append elements on the top row
4. `for i in range(top, bottom): res.append(matrix[i][right - 1])` append elements on the right column
5. `if not (left < right and top < bottom): break` verify the pointers
6. `for i in range(right - 1, left - 1, -1): res.append(matrix[bottom - 1][i])` go through the bottom row
7. `for i in range(bottom - 1, top - 1, -1): res.append(matrix[bottom - 1][i]` append the left column elements
8. `return res`

### Code:

```python
class Solution:
    def spiralOrder(self, matrix: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        res = []

        # initialize left, right, top, bottom boundary pointers
        left, right, top, bottom = 0, len(matrix[0]), 0, len(matrix)

        # loop while the pointers haven't met
        while left < right and top < bottom:
            # get every i in the top row
            for i in range(left, right):
                res.append(matrix[top][i])
            
            # since all elements at the current top level are done, bring top limit down
            top += 1

            # get every i in the right column
            for i in range(top, bottom):
                res.append(matrix[i][right - 1])
            
            # bring right pointer towards left
            right -= 1

            # in case the pointers already met
            if not (left < right and top < bottom):
                break

            # get every i in the bottom row
            for i in range(right - 1, left - 1, -1):
                res.append(matrix[bottom - 1][i])
            
            # bring bottom pointer upward
            bottom -= 1

            # get every i in the left column
            for i in range(bottom - 1, top - 1, -1):
                res.append(matrix[i][left])
            
            # shift left pointer to the right
            left += 1

        return res
```
